[Music]
hello again and this time welcome to
chapter 7 part 2 this is artificial
creativity the first part is very much
about artificial general intelligence so
we've got creativity which is from our
minds and that is the creativity that
allows us to create explanations as well
as create all the things that appear to
be rather uniquely human so for example
art and poetry and music but importantly
explanatory knowledge like science and
philosophy and mathematics
the things that allow us to really make
progress into the future and of course
that does include the products of our
creativity like art art requires
explanations in order to improve towards
some better standard objectively better
standard we're going to get there as
well in a later chapter
so that first form of artificial
creativity is very much about trying to
replicate artificially the creativity of
our minds what our minds can do it's
always surprising to me how people think
that there is a genetic propensity for
things like mathematics let's say your
mathematical ability it is often said is
genetic in some way this is what
psychology at the moment the prevailing
view is that IQ intelligence somehow has
a genetic component and this flows
through to things like capacity to do
mathematics there's some inherent thing
about brains that allows them to either
be good at mathematics or not so good at
mathematics which would mean if that's
true if it literally is a genetic
component to intelligence or to maps in
particular that would mean that have to
be genes for that capacity this can't be
true although there are genes of for
brains there are not genes for minds or
what Minds turn out to be minds of
course are universal explainers
it's unfortunately an entire field of
academia devoted to a misconception
it's called evolutionary psychology
evolutionary psychology purports to be
about how we have inherited certain
mental characteristics if we've
inherited certain mental characteristics
then this means that those mental
characteristics must somehow be in the
genes to me this seems like a category
error it's saying that abstract mental
capacities are somehow coded in the DNA
this is extremely unlikely because vast
as the DNA molecule is it's not vast
enough to contain all of the information
that is inside a mind as the mind begins
to learn and so in the same way that we
cannot expect that there would be a gene
for the capacity to say speak English
there cannot be a gene for the capacity
to do mathematics more or less all
English speakers have the same
proficiency yes there are differences
some people write books some people are
great orator z' other people kind of
mumble a little but overall we
understand each other we're about the
same level I don't think there are vast
differences there's probably like a 5%
difference in vocabulary between the
people who have have the greatest
linguistic dexterity and between the
people who struggle to form a sentence
but generally adult can understand one
another no matter the language that
they're using unless it's a
specialization but again if it's a
specialization such that you understand
a lot of medical or legal terminology
that's not in your genes you have to
learn that in the same way that it
cannot be the case that the capacity to
speak English is in the genes because it
doesn't matter what culture nation you
come from if you come to an
english-speaking country and you stay
there for long enough you will learn the
language similarly if a person born in
an english-speaking country moves to
China they will eventually learn
Mandarin in neither case can the
language be encoded in the DNA the
capacity to speak either language be
coded in the DNA
what is coded in the DNA is a capacity
for language generally and so it is with
mathematics or for any other activity of
the mind that particular activity of the
mind
mathematics doing poetry understanding
science the list is very long
none of these individual things can be
coded in the DNA only the general the
most general capacity can be coded in
the DNA namely the code for a brain
which can run a mind which is universal
that's it that's it once your universal
then you have a capacity to do
everything else so why are some people
better at maths and others or better at
speaking English than others because
they show a greater interest in doing
those things than others is that
interest coded in the DNA no I don't
think so it's a combination of the way
in which people are brought up what
grabs their attention as they grow into
maturity people's interests change over
time as well so artificial creativity
has to be about trying to find the
algorithm for whatever a universal
explainer is this very very special
capacity that only so far as we know
human beings possess in the entire
universe okay so that's artificial
creativity in terms of mental
intelligence or something like that the
second part that I'm going to talk about
here and now is artificial evolution
there's two sorts of knowledge remember
that david has distinguished here in the
beginning of infinity there's the
explanatory type knowledge and that's
the knowledge that we are able to create
as human beings and there's knowledge in
the DNA the knowledge the codes for
organisms we are not able to at this
moment because of our own lack of
knowledge artificially create either and
the reason we can't artificially create
either is because we don't understand
either sufficiently well and I mentioned
in part one that there were parts of
this chapter that I didn't fully
understand the first time I read the
book or the second time or the tenth
time I read the book it really took me
until last
gee many many years after the book had
been published for me to really grasp
what was being said here and it really
was exciting once I did figure it out I
didn't figure it out I had to speak to
someone else about him
I totally understood that we didn't
understand consciousness we didn't
understand how explanations were
generated and I knew that because if you
can't program it you haven't understood
it I knew that but I just couldn't
figure out why we couldn't understand
evolution I understood we had
evolutionary algorithms and David even
talks about evolutionary algorithms in
the beginning of infinity so I was
missing something and it's missing
something big I myself play games with
simulating evolution by natural
selection and I'll put a link in the
bottom all about this you can play games
where you sit like for example the
number of rabbits in a particular
environment and how often they breed and
how much food they have and and you
allow them to produce random mutations
now and again such that their fur color
changes then you can introduce wolves
into the environment and the Wolves will
eat the rabbits or not eat the rabbits
depending upon what color their fur is
and so you can simulate this kind of
evolution by natural selection in a
computer so I thought isn't that
programming evolution and aren't the
people who design evolutionary
algorithms aren't they programming
evolution no not really see I really
thought that not only we I thought that
I had a good handle on this evolution by
natural selection thing I remember in
second year maths I did a subject called
continuous dynamical systems which was
basically about something called
differential equations that that aside
that was maths applied to biology and
involves something called the logistic
equation and more complex versions
thereof and the logistic equation allows
you to determine the growth of a
population given the amount of food in
an environment if there's too much if
there's just the right amount or if it's
been restricted so you could make
predictions using mathematics and graphs
and I thought we understood all that how
populations grow and decline again I
thought here's biology being predicted
by mathematics I thought we understood
Darwinism because didn't Dawkins himself
figure out the rest of the genetic
details indeed
Richard Dawkins himself write a little
program that simulated evolution now
this is going to be terribly
self-indulgent for a moment but I just
wanted labor the point and be a terribly
self referential for the moment I
certainly didn't major in biology but I
was always really keen at university
when I had the opportunity to take
biology subjects or at least subjects
related to biology
I took a brilliant subject called armed
astrobiology and astrobiology was great
I took it I took a subject about
astrobiology twice I was once in an
undergraduate and then later on in a
postgraduate when I used the book like
this an introduction to astrobiology
which is a great book one time I took a
subject with great astrophysicists who
now lives in Australia he began in
America is called Charlie lineweaver and
if you're interested in astrophysics or
or astrobiology look up charlie
lineweaver on Google and have a read
through some of his papers he is a great
polymath I first did a degree in history
which is unusual for a physicist and the
subjects he's written about
professionally in astrophysics covered
dark energy and dark matter why planets
are the size that they are that one's
called the potato radius you can look
that up why did life appear as soon as
it possibly could on earth it appeared
much faster than might otherwise have
been expected he created something
called the nasalization quotient and
analyzed the length of animal trunks and
he did that to make a point about how
brain size isn't a convergent feature of
evolution anyways the list is long and
interesting and his papers are really
easy to read for any layperson compared
to typical physics papers I mean so
anyways Charlie taught me astrobiology
and evolution I got confident that I
knew it and then I did a biophysics from
another guy called Joe wolf at the
University of New South Wales and if
you're interested in learning physics
will look up Joe wolf University of New
South Wales because he's got some
brilliant pages web pages on on the
basics of physics all that to modern
physics including quantum theory and
relativity and what Joe's said of the
subject of astrobiology was basically
that that that astrobiology was the
science closest to theology because
after all they're both yet to
demonstrate the existence of their own
subject matter so in biophysics
even more biology and really thought I
was getting across this biology stuff
and I was excited to learn more about
biology and finally took a philosophy
subject called the philosophy of biology
with Professor Michaelis Michael again
at the University of New South Wales he
had a degree in zoology but he inspired
me to take lots of subjects and logic
and classical philosophy which is how I
got devoted off into philosophy and so
in the philosophy of biology course I
read lots of Dawkins and I read lots of
Stephen Jay Gould and about their
debates and so I thought this is this
this theory I mean there's a few
unknowns around the edges but surely
surely we know it as well as we know now
Newtonian mechanics or general
relativity or quantum theory it is the
biological equivalent of that surely but
despite reading The Selfish Gene and the
extended phenotype I didn't know what I
didn't know and this was the wonderful
thing it's possibly a problem with
taking formal courses of this sort and
you gaining some small amount of
so-called expertise in an area you
overestimate yourself especially if
you've never challenged yourself and
this is where the beginning of infinity
came in it challenged me about what I
thought I knew I didn't know and to be
fair no one does but at least David
Deutsch knew what others didn't or at
least he had a way of diagnosing how to
know that no one else understands either
as a bit of a footnote for what it's
worth my lecturer Michaelis Michael that
I mentioned who did the philosophy of
biology subject he must have known that
we didn't know much about evolution by
natural selection he must have known
that what was known about evolution by
natural selection contained huge gaps
because he published a book just a
couple of years ago I'll put it on the
screen now and in it he states clearly
the big gaps we have in our
understanding of evolution by natural
selection that comport with what is said
in the beginning of infinity so I guess
I should have known I didn't listen well
enough during the lectures apparently I
might mention something else here in
terms of not learning the right lesson
it's kind of like I suppose how people
can go through an entire physics degree
and learn as much as possible about
quantum mechanics
and how to do all the calculations and
never quite accept or appreciate that it
does imply the many-worlds
interpretation it implies that there are
parallel universes that there is a
multiverse the parallel to that
situation is me studying what's called
the miller-urey experiment I apologize
this is clearly a very long introduction
but bear with me just for one more
moment while I mentioned again why I
didn't realize what I didn't realize if
you study astrobiology so astrobiology
is about the conditions required in
order for there to be life out there in
the universe somewhere and so we might
be best to look for life out there in
the universe somewhere it would be a
good idea to have a place to start okay
we're probably gonna start on Mars but
beyond that we're might be a good place
would it be a warm pond would it be
beneath the surface etc one of the first
things in any astrobiology course is
usually something about the miller-urey
experiment the miller-urey experiment
was done back in the 50s and the idea is
pretty simple you take a flask and you
fill it with chemicals inorganic
chemicals that you think were present in
the early Earth so things like oxygen
nitrogen carbon dioxide perhaps some
methane perhaps sulfur etc you can make
up your own list of chemicals and this
experiment has been repeated again and
again so I think they're just generally
called miller-urey type experiments now
and what Miller and Urey do these are
the first guys that did it
was to take this flask seal it heat it
up a little and pass electricity through
it that was to simulate lightning and to
leave it for some time
and then after a certain amount of time
has passed you open up the flask and you
investigate what's inside now at first
what was found inside of this flask
offered great hope it was quite exciting
what they had managed to create out of
the nitrogen and oxygen methane etc were
amino acids they got people got very
excited about the fact that amino acids
had been produced inside of this flask
they're excited about producing amino
acids because amino acids are the very
building blocks of proteins and proteins
are what living organisms are made of
they're the things that DNA actually
produces DNA or genes code for proteins
so if you're creating amino acids surely
leaving it for even longer perhaps
changing or fiddling with the conditions
a little bit inside of your Miller Urey
flask you might get proteins so you get
proteins then you might get nucleic
acids you might get something that's
self-replicating
you might get DNA you might get
something crawl out of the flask
eventually this is what the miller-urey
type experiments are all about taking
something that is definitely not alive
not living inorganic leaving it for some
time in a warm environment with energy
in other words perhaps with electricity
and then at the end having something
alive something organic surely the
production of amino acids indicates that
were on the way to producing life well
know as many other people have pointed
out I might just mention Paul Davies
Paul Davies wrote an excellent book
called the Goldilocks enigma all about
how the conditions in the universe
seemed to be just right for life but he
will admit as many other people will
that these miller-urey type experiments
that produce amino acids showing very
much we find amino acids with our
powerful telescopes looking at
interstellar gas clouds
there's amino acids out there in
interstellar space so amino acids seem
to arise pretty spontaneously given the
right elements with a little bit of
energy other people have described
finding amino acids as to finding a pile
of bricks if you walk around the corner
and find a pile of bricks you don't
expect that the next pile of bricks that
you're going to find is going to
self-assemble itself into something like
the opera house which will be the
equivalent of thinking that just because
you found amino acids you're on the way
to finding a living organism
so just because Miller and Urey were
able to create amino acids inside their
flasks tells us absolutely nothing about
whether or not left for a certain amount
of time you will get laughs so the
remarkable thing is that Miller Urey
experiment have been repeated again and
again since the 1950s with basically the
same results I think proteins might have
been created
some point we do not know how inorganic
material becomes organic material and by
organic material I mean material it's
self-replicating it's a life many
popularizers of science today talk about
how we do not know how geochemistry
becomes biochemistry there's a massive
gap in our understanding and this comes
to bear on this whole question of why we
do not understand how the knowledge
that's in DNA got there at all
how it gets there how the universality
of DNA which means that the DNA can
actually create any living organism
that's out there how that came to be in
the first place we don't know we can't
create DNA from inorganic materials it
must have happened it must have been a
spontaneous thing we just don't know how
and I'll just mention in passing one
final thing the miller-urey experiment
seemed to suggest that life is very very
hard to create because our smartest
biologists working for decades at a time
on these kind of experiments have not
produced artificial life in the lab they
don't know how it must be really hard
we've repeated what we think of the
conditions in the early Earth over and
over again I think it must be thousands
of times thousands of different
experiments by now and nothing is
crawled out of that flask so that's an
argument that life is very hard to
spontaneously arise but the universe is
such that is very difficult for life to
spontaneously arise if smart people
working in labs can't do it then is it
going to happen by chance if people with
knowledge can't seem to do it then how
on earth could an environment without
any knowledge cause it to happen
spontaneously we don't know there's a
great mystery there so on the one hand
we have this argument that life must be
very difficult and therefore be very
rare in the universe as well that one of
the reasons one of the answers the Fermi
paradox might be it's just too difficult
it's highly unlikely that however many
planets there are out there in the
universe this
we are not enough planets out there in
the universe even if you were to cover
them all in inorganic material and to
warm them just like in the miller-urey
experiment and to make them perfectly
bio friendly nonetheless it might be the
case that it is exceedingly unlikely for
inorganic material to become alive and
so that might be an answer to the Fermi
paradox and the reason for looks like
this one which I would also recommend
rare-earth why complex life is uncommon
in the universe by Ward and Brownlee
that's a great book now standing in
stark contrast to that I might just
mention a paper by the great Charlie
lineweaver who I mentioned earlier and
he wrote a paper looking at how quickly
life arose here on the planet here on
earth there was a period called the late
heavy bombardment here on earth where
all of these comets from and asteroids
material from the very far reaches of
space I think out in the Auto Club or
maybe it's the Kuiper belt one of those
places where there's lots and lots of
asteroids and the far reaches of the
solar system this material was kicked in
towards the earth and it bombarded the
earth and so this is called the late
heavy bombardment and it caused the
temperature that surface of the earth to
rise very very high I think to molten
you know rock temperatures so thousands
of degrees Celsius sterilizing the earth
so if there was any life day it was
certainly wiped out at the light heavy
bombardment probably there was no life
there to begin with because prior to
that it the conditions weren't any more
friendly they became exceedingly hostile
during the late heavy bombardment as the
point however but then what happened
well then the earth cooled and if we
look through the fossil record if we dig
down deep we find dinosaurs and if we
dig even deeper so that the strata
become older and the organisms are more
ancient then we find fish and if we keep
going down further then we define
nothing but bacteria and if we keep
going down further we find nothing we
find no living organisms we find the
period at which the late heavy
bombardment happened and there's
geological evidence for the late heavy
bombardment but as soon as the late
heavy bombardment was over almost as
soon as it was over in geological time
life appeared life appeared straightaway
it seems on a geological timescale so
that is an argument that life will arise
as quickly as it can given favorable
conditions because here on earth as soon
as the conditions were favorable life
arose that's remarkable but now we have
a contradiction the miller-urey type
experiments seem to be suggesting that
life is very very difficult to create no
matter what the conditions because the
scientists keep trying to create
friendly conditions and nothing's
crawling out of the flask on the other
hand the actual experience of Earth was
life arose as soon as it possibly could
as soon as the as soon as the conditions
were just right what on earth is going
on this is really exciting there must be
an answer to this but we don't
understand how life arose we do not
understand these processes of life I
suppose this is kind of only
tangentially related precisely to what
the beginning of infinity is about which
which is more about once you've got life
once you've actually got life how can
you artificially simulate the process of
evolution by natural selection although
the process of evolution by natural
selection probably predates any of the
simple living organisms that we have it
probably goes all the way back to when
we had an RNA world so it's probably
evolution by natural selection going on
then we don't even know how to get RNA
out of this inorganic material that's
enough for me from the moment let's go
to let's go to the book so David writes
when discussing Lamarckism in chapter 4
I pointed out the fundamental difference
between a muscle becoming stronger in an
individual's lifetime and muscles
evolving to become stronger for the
former the knowledge to achieve all the
available muscle strengths must already
be present in the individual genes
before the sequence of changes begins
and so must the knowledge of how to
recognize the circumstances under which
to make the changes this is exactly the
analog of a trick that a programmer has
built into a chatbot the chatbot
responds as though it had created some
of the knowledge while composing it
responds but in fact all the knowledge
was created earlier and elsewhere it was
going to flag that this is me talking we
will come back to that to that later
that is the key
fact in this chapter that I think I
missed I'll say it again when it comes
to a chatbot when it comes to knowledge
and the chatbot appearing to say
something original or something creative
or to give you a piece of knowledge that
it has produced itself david says in
fact all that knowledge was created
earlier and elsewhere okay
I'll continue reading the analog of
evolutionary change in a species is
creative thought in a person the analog
of the idea that AI could be achieved by
an accumulation of chatbot tricks is
Lamarckism the theory that new
adaptations could be explained by
changes that are in reality just a
manifestation of existing knowledge
there are several current areas of
research in which that same
misconception is common in chatbot based
AI research it sent the whole field down
a blind alley but in other fields it has
merely caused researchers to attach over
ambitious levels to genuine I'll be
relatively modest achievements one such
area is artificial evolution recall
Edison's idea that progress requires
alternating inspiration and perspiration
phases and that because of computers and
other technology it is increasingly
becoming possible to automate the
perspiration phase this welcome
development has misled those who are
overconfident about achieving artificial
evolution and I I for example suppose
you are a graduate student in robotics
hoping to build a robot that walks on
legs better than previous robots the
first phase of the solution must involve
inspiration that is to say creative
thought attempting to improve upon
previous researchers attempts to solve
the same problem you will start from
that and from existing ideas about other
problems that you conjecture may be
related and from the designs of walking
animals in nature all of that
constitutes existing knowledge which you
will vary and combine in new ways and
then subject to criticism and further
variation eventually you will have
created a design for the hardware of
your new robot its legs were there
joints tendons and motors its body which
will hold the power supply its sense
organs through which it will receive the
feedback that will allow it to control
those limbs effectively and the computer
that will exercise that control you will
have adapted everything in that design
as best you can to the purpose of
walking except the program in the
computer so I'll just pause it so we're
already getting a hint of where this
argument is going the knowledge was
created earlier and elsewhere okay with
evolution by natural selection organisms
don't come into being just with legs
those legs have evolved over time from
things that weren't legs maybe like fins
or flippers or something like that and
then legs evolved in fact in the case of
flippers then of course they evolved
from legs but you get my point
here the graduate student has already
built her a theme a robot with de limbs
so already we don't have anything
resembling artificial evolution we have
a creature that already has the required
hardware so let's go back to the book
where it were
he's just reread that last section last
sentence you will have adapted
everything in that design as best you
can to the purpose of walking except the
programming the computer the function of
that program will be to recognize
situations such as the robot beginning
to topple over or obstacles in its path
and to calculate the appropriate action
and to take it this is the hardest part
of your research program how does one
recognize when it is best to avoid an
obstacle to the left or to the right or
to jump over it or to kick it aside or
ignore it or lengthen once tried to
avoid stepping on it or judge it
impossible and turn back in all those
cases how does one specifically do those
things in terms of sending countless
signals to the motors and the gears as
modified by feedback from the sensors
you will break the problem down into
subproblems viewing by a given angle is
similar to veering by a different angle
that allows you to write a subroutine
for viewing that takes care of the whole
continuum of possible
cases once you have written it all other
parts of the program need only call it
whenever they decide that veering is
required and so they do not have to
contain any knowledge about the messy
details of what it takes to V when you
have identified and solved as many of
those subproblems as you can you will
have created a code or language that is
highly adapted to making statements
about how your robot should walk each
call of one of its subroutines is a
statement or command in that language so
far most of what you have done comes
under the heading of inspiration it
required creative thought but now
perspiration looms
once you have automated everything that
you know how to automate you have no
choice but to resort to some sort of
trial and error to achieve any
additional functionality however you do
now have the advantage of a language
that you have adapted for the purpose of
instructing the robot how to walk so you
can now start with a program that is
simple in that language despite being
very complex in terms of elementary
instructions of the computer and which
means for instance walk forwards and
stop if you hit an obstacle then you can
run the robot with that program and see
what happens or you can run a computer
simulation of the robot when it falls
over anything else undesirable happens
you can modify your program still using
the high-level language you have created
to eliminate the deficiencies as they
are ours that method will require ever
less inspiration and ever more
perspiration but an alternative approach
is also open to you you can delegate the
perspiration to a computer by using a
so-called evolutionary algorithm using
the same computer simulation you run
many trials each with a slight random
variation of that first program if the
evolutionary algorithm subjects each
simulated robot automatically to a
battery of tests that you have provided
how far it can walk without falling over
how well it copes with obstacles and
rough terrain and so on at the end of
each run the program that performed best
is retained and the rest are discarded
then many variants of that program are
created and the process is repeated
after thousands of iterations of this
evolutionary process you may find that
your robot works quite well according to
the criteria you have set you can now
write your thesis not only can you claim
to have achieved a robot that walks with
required degree of skill you can claim
to have implemented evolution on a
computer this sort of thing has been
done successfully many times it is a
useful technique
it certainly constitutes evolution in
the sense of alternating variation in
selection but is it evolution in the
more important sense of create of the
creation of knowledge by variation
selection okay so I'll just repeat that
this is David deutsches emphasis on what
Darwin and Dawkins have said about
evolution by natural selection
David emphasizes how DNA contains
knowledge knowledge of how to create
organisms and so therefore evolution by
natural selection is really a theory
about how knowledge has evolved in DNA
okay how the knowledge got into that DNA
I just repeat that but is it evolution
in the more important sense of the
creation of knowledge by variation and
selection this will be achieved one day
but I doubt that it has been yet for the
same reason that I doubt chatbots are
intelligent even slightly the reason is
that there is much more obvious
explanation of their abilities namely
the creativity of the programmer the
task of ruling out the possibility that
the knowledge was created by the
programmer in the case of artificial
evolution has the same logic that
checking a program is an AI but harvick
because the amount of knowledge that the
evolution purportedly creates is vastly
less even if you yourself the programmer
you're in no position to judge whether
you created that relatively small amount
of knowledge or not for one thing some
of the knowledge that you packed into
the language during those many months of
design will have reach because it
encoded some general truths about the
laws of geometry mechanics and so on for
another when designing the language you
had constantly in mind what sort of
abilities would eventually be used to
express okay me talking so the
programmer who says they've successfully
simulated evolution by natural selection
in a computer well they can't have
because evolution is blind evolution is
blind we know this we know this from the
theory of evolution by natural selection
it's not directed towards a particular
goal this is a huge misconception by the
way okay look alias yes I admit
lots of people do have this
misconception lots of people think there
is an arrow of evolution that that
organisms move towards ever greater
complexity not true bacteria have been
around since the beginning of life on
earth for billions of years they have
remained that they're just as evolved as
we are I think Ricky Gervais sighs fond
of saying things like that which is true
in a sense they've been evolving and
they've found their niche and they have
been perfectly suited to their niche as
have moths and other insects as have
fish they have all evolved to fill their
niche there is no arrow of evolution
leading towards a particular a form of
complexity evolution wasn't always
directed towards us so far as we can
tell at least that's what the theory
says because evolution is blind it
doesn't know what the next best organism
would be for a given environment so if
evolution is blind fact it cannot be the
case that this is an evolutionary
algorithm in the Darwinian sense because
the programmer when designing the
language had constantly in mind what
sort of abilities it would eventually be
used to express which is completely
unlike what evolution does evolution
does not have in mind
what sort of abilities it's going to be
expressing it's going to be expressing
in the organisms of the future I'll
continue reading next paragraph I'm just
I'm just going to skip the next
paragraph and then David writes one
thing there always seems to happen with
such projects evolutionary algorithms is
that after they achieve their intended
aim if the evolutionary program is
allowed to run further it produces no
further improvements this is exactly
what would happen if all the knowledge
in this successful robot had actually
come from the programmer but it is not a
conclusive critique biological evolution
often reaches local Maxima of fitness so
again I'll just pause there so what's
David saying there is they in real life
evolution one wouldn't expect the
organism that's evolving to simply stop
there if it was true evolution
especially be doing in two
and you can simulate things such they
get better and better very very quickly
so you can do you know billions of
cycles of evolution you know in a few
seconds or a few minutes or whatever it
happens to be because you're just
simulating it why doesn't the organism
organism I say organisms why doesn't the
simulator robot let's say inside of the
computer that you've taught - you
haven't taught you've allowed to evolve
the capacity to walk why doesn't it then
start jumping or better yet what are the
legs evolve into wings and it fly away
that's kind of what evolution does you
have improvement beyond the thing that
it becomes good at but that doesn't
happen all that it evolves towards is
precisely the thing you expect it to
evolve before - towards you expect it to
evolve towards walking because that's
what you've programmed it to do the only
thing that you've added in is this
so-called evolutionary algorithm where
instead of just solving the problem
yourself you allow the computer to
determine to judge for itself whether or
not it's slightly improving or slightly
getting worse and to make a judgment on
that and you're calling that evolution
now as david says there that is not a
conclusive critique biological evolution
often reaches local maximum or fitness
also after attaining its mysterious form
of universality DNA he's talking about
here seem to pause for about a billion
years before creating any significant
new knowledge but still achieving
results that might well be due to
something else is not evidence of
evolution that is why I doubt that any
artificial evolution has ever created
knowledge I have the same view for the
same reasons about slightly different
kind about the slightly different kind
of artificial evolution that tries to
evolve simulated organisms in a virtual
environment and the kind that pits
different virtual species against each
other which is the one that I'm going to
put down in a link below and you play
around with those that it's a good way
to learn about evolution by natural
selection but yes there's lots of those
things out there on the internet and
there's lots of ways of simulating
evolution but as david says they're
they're not real artificial evolution
they're toys they might be good
pedagogical
tools to use but these are not proper
simulations of evolution by natural
selection the next part is the real
kicker so let's read the next couple of
paragraphs sorry he wants to he's just
asserted that no genuine artificial
evolution has ever been simulated and he
writes to test this proposition I would
like to see an experiment of a slightly
different kind
Alima at the graduate student from the
project then instead of using a robot
designed to evolve better ways of
walking use a robot that is already in
use in some real-life application
happens to be capable of walking and
then instead of creating a special
language of subroutines in which to
express conjectures about how to walk
just replace its existing program in its
existing microphone in its existing
microprocessor by random numbers
permutations use errors of the type that
happen anyway in such processes though
in the simulation you are allowed to
make them happen as often as you like
the purpose of all that is to eliminate
the possibility that human knowledge is
being fed into the design of the system
and that its reach is being mistaken for
the product of evolution then run
simulations of that mutating system in
the usual way as many as you like if the
robot ever walks better than it did
originally that I am mistaken if it
continues to improve out of hat I'm very
much mistaken one of the main features
of the above experiment which is lacking
in the usual way of doing artificial
evolution is that for it to work the
language of subroutines would have to
evolve along with the adaptations that
it was expressing this is what was
happening in the biased view before that
jump to universality that finally
settled in a DNA genetic code as I said
it may be that all those previous
genetic codes were only capable of
coding for a small number of organisms
that were all rather similar and that
the overwhelming reek and that the
overwhelmingly rich biosphere that we
see around us created by randomly
varying genes while living the language
unchanged is something that became
possible only after that jump we don't
even know what kind of university was
created there so why should we expect
our artificial evolution to work without
it and David concludes by speaking about
how we need to be a little bit more
and modest and face the fact there are
huge unknowns here huge unknowns with
human intelligence human creativity and
trying to create artificial creativity
inside artificial general intelligence
and there are huge unknown similarly
with evolution by natural selection
we've never simulated evolution if we
can't program it
we haven't understood it and so I'll
just emphasize that again just to put a
cap on this about what I didn't
understand it's really the part where he
talks about taking away the graduate
student removing the goal removing the
goal okay I didn't get that evolution
doesn't have a goal it's just survival
of the fittest but it can't possibly the
evolution doesn't know what the fittest
is it has to test out what works and
what survives is what survives it's a
becomes a little bit of a truism the
survival of the fittest Darwin had never
actually talked about survival of the
fittest and I think for very good reason
he knew that it was sort of a tautology
because who are the fittest or the
fittest of the ones who survive right so
anyway taking away the graduate student
from the experiment where you've got
this robot the can't yet walk removes
the Gaul removes the knowledge that
could be put into that robot by the
graduate student by the programmer if
you give the robot legs and let the
software take over then what happens
well if it's just a random lot of
numbers in there then you're letting the
microprocessor just churn through these
numbers then that would be a true
simulation of evolution by natural
selection this random sequence of
numbers if the robot starts to walk if
the robot starts to walk a little bit
better well then okay knowledge is
somehow being created by that robot in
order to improve its walking so if the
robot was to start to walk better David
admits who would be wrong and if it
continues to improve it would be very
wrong but wrong about what well that
evolution he would be wrong that
evolution doesn't have a goal because
the the robot if it starts to walk must
have had a goal must have had the goal
of walking now of course it's not just
David who would be wrong
it's not just david who would be wrong
he just happened to explain this thought
experiment darwin and Dawkins would be
wrong and it's what they were in fact
getting at and I didn't understand there
is literally no goal there's no thing
walking or otherwise to strive towards
so why nevertheless is there improvement
of the kind we actually see in nature we
do see things walking that couldn't walk
before kind of you know the fish evolved
into land creatures and the land
creatures walked but the individual fish
didn't that would be again Lamarckism we
do see increased complexity life
evolving to fill niches and this
sometimes leads to greater complexity
but why how does life fit so well in its
niche how does it adapt we don't know
except to say well the first survive and
the fittest just those who survive and
those who survive er the fittest in high
school biology students now learn all
sorts of fancy details about genetics
about replication and transcription had
genes on DNA code for proteins the DNA
is a kind of software and it constructs
proteins different parts of the DNA code
for different proteins indeed it's all
very computer like there's a read head
that moves along the DNA copying
sections to RNA which then gathers up
the required materials for protein
synthesis we know many details but we
cannot replicate the evolution of this
in the lab we simply do not know enough
details to simulate the evolution of
this process this is where it's not like
general relativity if there's a true
evolutionary algorithm out there let's
see an actual ecosystem of whole online
so there's so much we don't know and as
I as I began this with the miller-urey
experiment we don't know why all these
miller-urey experiment continued to fail
there are big gaps here in our
understanding about how complexity
increases in other words how the
knowledge comes to being Stan ciated
within the DNA within the
self-replicating molecules this is
really exciting for me this chapter this
was a brilliant one it's the one as I
fully admit I didn't appreciate until
last year but now I think I do I have a
better idea
and
all about the fact that evolution
doesn't have a goal but evolutionary
algorithms most certainly do and so
therefore there miss named they're not
true evolution by natural selection
algorithms called an evolutionary
algorithms if you like but don't think
that in any way it resembles the kind of
evolution we have in biology looking
forward to doing the very next chapter
the next chapter is our window and
infinity so moving away from biology and
into the philosophy of mathematics can't
wait to do that one I'll see you then
bye-bye
[Music]
you